Welcome to Cloud Native Compass,
a podcast to help you navigate the vast
landscape of the cloud native ecosystem.
We're your hosts. I'm David Flanagan, a technology
magpie that can't stop playing with new shiny
things. I'm Laura Santa Maria, a forever learner
who is constantly breaking production. David is supposed
to be working on something open source at
this point,
at least according to our current guest, Kat
Cosgrove, one of the sub project leads for
SIG release in the Kubernetes project. Kubernetes is
the second biggest open source project in the
world,
which means the only people being paid to
contribute to Kubernetes are the lawyers. In this
episode,
we didn't even bring up Rust,
but we did get to talk with Kat
about the release process and what being a
maintainer is like,
including burnout and handling drive by PRs. Enjoy
this episode. And for a bit of fun,
one project has caused numerous delays to the
Kubernetes release. Can you guess what it is?
Enjoy.
David and I are excited to have Kat
on.
Kat is here. Yay.
Hello. Hi, Kat. Yay. You sound so excited.
I'm not well known for my enthusiasm. No.
No. I know. It's okay. Yeah. You're well
with the Scottish audience and the Scottish culture
because you're dry as fuck, and I love
it. Thank you. Thank you. Well, so for
for those of you who don't know us,
the three of us used to work together,
and so this is gonna be a highly
entertaining podcast, I think, more than anything else.
But we are trying to talk about the
Kubernetes release cycle
on this, and who knows if we're gonna
stick to it? But we're gonna find out.
So We'll try. Yeah. Why not? David, do
you have, like, a first question? Otherwise,
we're just gonna dive in. I don't know.
Oh, yeah. We'll kick it off with a
nice low hanging fruit, easy to answer. Lubricate
the the conversation.
I've never used that before ever.
And then I said it out loud. Lubricate.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think we regret that
one.
Yeah. File that away, so don't do it
again. Jesus.
I was actually wanting to make, like, a
whiskey and bourbon
intro, and I could quite connect the dots
in my head about looking at the conversation.
So our guests who are joining us in
the middle of this conversation, we already have
been talking for about forty minutes, including about
bourbon. So there was an attempt, David. That
was a
entertaining attempt at
drawing us back to bourbon.
But maybe we should talk about tech first.
Then we can talk about bourbon
again. Alright. I don't love computers. Yeah. What
is the who who taught sand to think?
Who thought that was a good idea?
I thought teaching sand to think was fine.
Letting the talking sand
communicate with other talking sand,
that's where we fucked up.
That's where we veered off course, I think.
Yeah. Sounds makes sense. Okay. I'm trying to
lubricate the conversation.
Lubricating up. Right? Let's go.
No. I'm not gonna make that joke. So
let's cat
you
led
the release, our previous release. I think we're
now back to releases there. It was called,
I don't even know how to pronounce it,
Kubernetes. Is that right? I
was the release lead for Oh, Kubernetes.
But you're also continuing your work, right? I
am. I own the release team sub project
now. Now I am the release lead's boss
and mom
and personal assistant
and housekeeper.
There you go. There you go. Yeah.
You went to All right. So let's cover
this through both angles. Let's understand
what's involved in leading a release, naming all
the fun bits as well as the hardships.
And then maybe we can talk broader about
just how much effort goes into each release,
the people involved, and how people can inevitably
contribute and help out. Because, obviously, this is
a fast moving project. Kubernetes has not stopped
in many years. And I'd love to get
into that in more detail.
Sure. So we do three releases a year.
Each cycle is about
four months long. There's a week ish and
a half of gap between each release where
we're not doing anything, which is nice. But
yeah, we don't really slow down at any
point during the year, which is unfortunate for
us, but fortunate for people who rely on
Kubernetes. If you want
new updates frequently.
And the release team is
not as large as it used to be,
but it is still
quite large. The team itself is made up
of the sub project owners, which is myself
and Grace,
then a release lead and an emeritus adviser.
The emeritus adviser's job is just kind of
emotional support for the lead because it is
like it's stressful. It's highly public. You are
the face of the release. You have to
talk to the press. You have to deal
with the CNCF sometimes.
You get random DMs from people you don't
know and have never spoken to, but they
have a lot of power and that can
be overwhelming
for some people. And beneath the release lead,
they have their own shadows. They have between
four and six release lead shadows who are
people who have experience leading a sub team
within the release team and may lead a
release in the future.
There are also several sub teams. There is
a docs sub team responsible for making sure
that any KEP with
user facing changes has documentation.
That is a hard requirement. We don't allow
KEPs with user facing changes into the release
unless they have documentation.
There's a communications team that's responsible for managing
things like feature blogs,
making sure the release webinar happens, managing the
press embargo,
handling the release lead schedule for
interviews with the press, that kind of stuff.
Then an enhancements team that catalogs and makes
sure that each CAP has
all of its requirements met by certain deadlines,
like code freeze and test freeze. And release
signal, which is bug hunting, basically, making sure
that our CI looks good before any cut.
And if it is bad for whatever reason,
if there's a test failing, they chase down
the SIG that owns it and make sure
that bug gets fixed. Each of those teams
has between four and six shadows and a
lead as well. So ultimately,
the release lead is managing something like 25
to 30 people
for four months. It is a lot of
work. It can be very overwhelming. Any role
on the release team is mostly just
project management,
but some of them do require like some
degree of technical expertise. You have to know
how to use Git
on basically any team, but you don't have
to be an expert in Kubernetes or an
expert in open source. It's a pretty common
entry point for new people contributing to Kubernetes
for the first time.
I don't think it is a good way
to contribute to Kubernetes for the first time
if that's really overwhelming.
But people do it all the time and
survive.
I just don't think it's the easiest or
best way to get started in the project.
But it is it's a it's an overwhelming
place to be. It's a burnout factory too.
So you obviously then get a lot of
floaters coming in and out, a lot of
new contributors,
people you have to kind of guide ish.
Do you think a lot of it has
more to do with just how structured
and how short of a time commitment it
is that you get so many new people
coming through?
I don't think the short time commitment is
a consideration
because for a lot of these people, by
the time they're halfway through the release cycle,
they think four months is a long time
and they disappear. Yeah. What drives people to
go through the release team as an entry
point
is it's very structured. That's for sure a
contributing
factor. It's
very clear how to get involved and
what getting involved gets you, which is org
membership. Anybody on the release team has to
be a Kubernetes org member. So if you
are not an org member and you are
selected for the release team, we just give
you org membership with no previous contributions.
I think the bigger contributing factor to people
choosing the release team is how public and
how flashy it is, and they think it
looks good on a resume. And I think
that's something that the project doesn't think about
enough. We are the second largest open source
project in the world. We are the largest
Golang based open source project in the world.
And we need to accept that, that we
are no longer
a little tiny baby. We are in fact
like an absolutely enormous
force within open source and people want that
on their resume.
So they go through the release team because
it is an easy way to get a
very public aspect of the Kubernetes project
on your LinkedIn profile. Don't love that because
people do misuse it.
Of course. Of course. Yeah.
I get that, David. And I was a
shadow for the one twelve, 13, and 14
release. You wanna come Well, actually, the reason
I stopped contributing is because I kept signing
up for other different groups. I only ever
did release columns, but I couldn't get accepted
into any other group because I think there
was a phase where there were so many
people applying.
It was really Oh, we get hundreds.
We get hundreds of applicants. So I just
stopped applying, but I would definitely love to
come back. I didn't do it to get
it on my resume. I was the official
host of the Cooper official. Right? And we
were all volunteers, but I was the host
of the Kubernetes office hours and joining the
release team is actually a good way to
keep up to date with what was happening.
But I think one of the things that
shocked me the most is, like, the release
team is super structured,
but the people working on
issues and contributing code, was a bit like
the Wild West. Like, to the point where
the feature enhancements team,
we just say, oh, what are going to
do in the best release? And they're like,
oh, we don't know yet. Let's maybe pull
in these ones. And it's very ad hoc
and it's very we'll just see what we
can get done. It felt like I don't
want to say wrangling cats, but it does
feel like wrangling cats. It is. It's
definitely more structured now than it was when
you were on the team. We also have
far fewer sub teams now. Now we only
have four. We used to have bug signal
or bug triage and CI signal, and there
was a testing
sub team as well. So we've deleted some
sub teams and things are definitely much more
structured, but the herding cats aspect,
absolutely still a problem. It's still an enormous
problem. Some SIGs are
harder to herd than others,
but it is very much still an issue.
And that's just the nature of open source.
Right? Many of those contributors are just doing
it for free.
Yeah. That's the thing. Like everyone working on
the Kubernetes program, normally people paid for Kubernetes.
It's the CNCF staff. So let's not touch
that with a particle.
However Yeah. Working
working on Kubernetes are volunteers. They have day
jobs. Some of them are fortunate enough to
be paid to be working on Kubernetes, which
is great for the people that work at
Google, Red Hat, a couple other big ones.
Right? But most people are just yeah, I'll
try and get this done. I'll do it
at the weekend. I'll do it when I
get home. You're asking for questions on documentation
updates and as a feature gonna make it,
and they're replying as they can. And I
get that. That's just the nature of open
source, as you said. Like,
don't. It's the nature of any I don't
know. Volunteering organization, to be honest with you.
Like, if you're running a conference, like, no
no one's really paid to do that if
you're doing it as a community conference, and
it's when somebody gets time.
And so you have to flex around that
quite a bit. So I don't think it's
I don't think it's unique to open source.
The only thing unique about open source, I'd
say, is how,
specialized it can get
when you start really getting down to it.
So Mhmm. I don't know. It is kind
of an interesting conundrum there. Yeah. Right. Okay.
So when again, I'll come back to one
more question related to my time on it
because that's where most of my experience is,
and we can talk about modern more of
the modern day stuff. But CI Signal was
the team that I had the most
sympathy empathy.
I'm not sure which for.
They felt like they were I felt like
they were constantly firefighting with everybody pushing up
new bugs, new features, all these things, and
CI just falling over. And you actually take
a step back to understand just what is
happening, how many commits per day there are,
how many CI runs, how many GitHub actions
that is. It's such a huge,
daunting task to keep all of that green
and relevant. Is that still the case?
Yeah. It's gotten better. As we've gotten better
at writing tests,
not everything is blocking now,
which is an improvement.
But one of the things that made
bug triage and CI signal easier, easy enough
that we could eliminate them as separate teams
and merge them, was actually just a change
in the way we manage those teams. We
used to handle all of that
through a Google spreadsheet,
which was a big, shitty,
miserable nightmare.
The whole release was managed in a single
Google Sheet. Anything from enhancements tracking to CI
signal to bug triage was all just like
a bunch of messy automation dumping into a
Google Sheet.
And six or seven releases ago, maybe six
releases ago,
we canned that
and switched over to using
GitHub projects board and some significantly smarter automation
for our test grid, which is what the
CI signal team was looking at.
And now Bug Triage has
almost nothing to do, so little to do.
There's still something. There's still enough that we
couldn't just can the whole roll, but we
just rolled it into
CI signal and now it's much easier for
everybody to deal with. So it's less frantic,
but every time there's a bug or a
master blocking test fails, yeah, it's still frantic.
But how frantic that is depends on the
SIG that owns that test that failed. Some
SIGs are larger and more well staffed and
more responsive than others.
And again,
it's open source, so
everybody has a day job. Everybody has kids
and family and pets to take care of.
And an important thing that I think
not just the public, but a lot of
people even within the project don't realize is
that by charter
SIG release will choose to delay a release
before we choose to make the release team
work over weekends.
We will yeah,
we it is. We will not run our
team ragged
just to
squash a bug and make a release cut.
We will just delay it. We've done it
in the past. We'll do it again.
I personally have been very quick to say
no, delay
an RC,
a release candidate cut, because why?
The release date is aspirational, and we're not
gonna make our team miserable to
hit it because nobody's paying us. Yeah. I
have to remember like, I guess I'm
kind of showing that maybe I don't remember
everything about open source. What open source project
does have set releases like this?
Really, like, this like, something this big.
Even, like, the Linux kernel doesn't
say, like, we're guaranteeing a release on this
day.
No one really does that. Not an open
source. Not that I can think
of.
They don't guarantee it. Some
projects
will give you their target release dates for
every release for the year.
Whereas we only give you a target date
at the beginning of the release cycle. We're
discussing the timeline for the next Kubernetes release
right now. So within the next week or
two,
you'll know when the next Kubernetes releases target
date is. Some projects will give you their
target dates for a whole year, but I
don't think anybody guarantees
that.
I don't think even not
it's not even that common with closed source,
like paid nobody would guarantee a release date.
That's ridiculous. That's a liability. Yeah. The only
thing I can think of that is even
remotely
I don't know if guaranteed is the right
word is the Ubuntu releases because they always
do it in April and October.
But even then,
it's a whole month to hit, not a
Yeah. Not a single day. Day. Yeah. Right?
Yeah. And we can't we would never be
able to do that anyway because honestly, the
most common cause of a Kubernetes release being
delayed
is Golang.
Really? Yep,
the Go project does not tell us when
there's going to be an update coming. We
don't get any kind of advanced warning.
The only time we get advanced warning is
if it is due to a
CBE that affects us. Will know in advance,
but we can't tell you that because we
all sign NDAs for
that. So, we can't actually say anything. But
yeah, if Go updates
and they update too close to the release
date so that we can't have we really
want at least three days for a new
Go version to soak before we call it
good and release.
If they cut it too close,
we have no choice but to delay. I've
seen that delay three or four Kubernetes releases
in my Pretty
common cause.
And we have no control over that. We
have no way to predict it because we
don't get any kind of advanced warning from
the Go team, Which is fine. They don't
have to give it to us. Can like,
we can work around it. It's no skin
off my back to delay a release for
a week. Yeah. Nobody's waiting for it that
hard or they shouldn't be. If they are,
maybe you should go touch some grass.
Yeah. Touch grass. The media, because they get
it means that we push their embargo date
back and that's like a little bit irritating.
But yeah, it's not the end of the
world.
Like, you're not going to die because you
had to wait another release. Why is there
a press embargo date when everything is so
open and transparent?
What is
No idea.
Wish I knew one. I think it's dumb.
So, because So we try to keep it
secret, right, with the release blog. The release
blog will be staged in a PR two
weeks before an actual release date. And then
the little blurb that the release lead writes
and the logo
will get added to that PR like the
day before release, two days before release.
So it's not
public, if you know how to look at
GitHub, like you can see it, you can
see it. I don't really get it. Embargoing
interviews with the release lead, fine. I don't
really care. But embargoing
just
writings about the release,
which is all based on information that is
very publicly visible on
GitHub, seems a little bit ridiculous to me.
I don't know. It smells like a formality
that's there to make the whole thing seem
more
important than it actually is. Yeah. I think
it's some weird decision from someone who's worked
in So press market and and it's yeah.
It's because I wouldn't name the company, but
there's a well known observability
company that always published or watched new Kubernetes
the day before the embargo
was supposed to lift. And obviously, the information
is public. Like, it's not like they can
they can't force them to stop it. Yeah.
What are you gonna do?
Yeah. There's nothing you can do. Like, you
are welcome to do that. I don't love
it. It's a little bit irritating. It's okay.
It irritates me in one situation and one
situation only.
When people go and rip quotes out of
the unpublished release blog and publish it,
that
hurts my feelings a little because it's stealing
the thunder from the release lead
who- Yeah.
Worked their butt off for- Who
worked their butt off for four months, for
probably more like two or three years
you've
got to
lead multiple sub teams to end up as
a release lead. It's a lot of work
and
it's unpaid work. The only reward that the
release lead gets is publishing that release blog
with their cute little couple paragraphs about the
release theme and naming it something fun. So
I don't like it
when people
rip that out of the unpublished blog.
That's rude.
But just talking about what enhancements made it
go ahead, because what enhancements made it has
been public for
shit,
four, six weeks at that point
because of code freeze. So be my guest.
I don't care. It's not,
I mean, fight with the CNCF on it.
But for me, that's not against the rules
in It's
to find if you know. I guess there
is a little bit of that if you
know where to look. And I mean, everyone
always talks about how complex and convoluted the
Kubernetes
GitHub can be for somebody who isn't familiar
with how everything is structured. So I guess
there's a little bit of that, maybe. But
for listeners who want to get a sneak
peek of
what's going to be in the release before
the actual release date, the trick is you
go look in the Kubernetes
website repo. Yep. And the release blog will
be there in PRs a couple weeks before
the release, as well as any unpublished feature
blogs. And
if you want to know which enhancements made
it, you go to the Kubernetes enhancements repo
and go look there. I mean, or
you could join a and be there's that
too. I mean, like, could just be part
of it. Yeah.
You could go snooping or you could come
do some free work for me. Free work
sounds good. Free work sounds good. David. I've
I've just read the PRs. There's a lot
less effort. And then I can pump them
through AI and have to write my own
blogs and then the job done. Right? Oh,
yeah. Easy. But I'm worth saying, David, you
could go do some free work. Hint. Hint.
Hint. Hint. Oh, yeah. Come do some free
work for me. We did have a drive
by AI PR issue
a little while Oh, did. I you does
not surprise me. I mean, open source project
has been Especially during Hacktoberfest.
Right? I'm assuming it was right. Oh, geez.
I know. We do not participate in Hacktoberfest
for the same reasons that lots of people
don't participate in Hacktoberfest anymore. And it was
not a Hacktoberfest thing. It was some
paid
product that uses AI to
improve
the docs for open source projects
for style guide compliance and all that. But
it is a paid product and they do
these free drive by PRs
and say, Oh, this one's on the house
if we can just say you use us.
And so we have two problems with that.
One,
absolutely fucking. Not without talking to us first.
No. Two,
the PR was bad. That's entirely automated. It
doesn't actually think or learn or understand the
structure of the Kubernetes docs website. So it
was making changes to a bunch of generated
files
and some things that like admittedly our bad
are
how we like to write things, but not
at the time weren't included in our style
guide.
So if
you own an AI based
project
about docs for open source projects,
please do not drive by PRs. Just talk
to us for God's sake.
We're so easy to get a hold of.
Just talk to The question when they do
this is not is your product useful and
could we get value from it? And that
could be a yes, but is that the
right way to do it? No. It could
easily be yes.
Yeah. That's the problem. Yeah. Like, I would
love to see, like, some toil reduced
in open source projects. Right? Like, style guide
compliance is an obnoxious thing
to review for. It's very ticky tack, and
it's hard to train
new people to do that because it's this
laundry list of like really specific tiny things
that they have to comply with.
And they're going to screw up a lot
at first until they have the style guide
memorized.
And it would be great to reduce that
work.
But you can't just rock up with an
unasked for PR and say, hey, can we
use you for marketing?
So
I will say I know someone,
and I am not naming names.
I know somebody who,
for a little while,
was doing AutoPep eight on Python stuff. This
was a long time ago. They were doing
AutoPep eight on Python code in random open
source projects and just submitting PRs. They would
just run AutoPep eight, you know, pull it
down, run AutoPep eight, submit the PR. Next
project.
And it was
I think at the time, I don't remember
how many they did, but it definitely was
a, like, what are you doing? Why are
you creating more work
for a maintainer?
You're not even asking. You're not, like, looking
at what they have. This was long before
black and any of those those projects that
would lint for you and do the auto
pip. It was just auto pip eight. I
don't know. I I keep thinking about just
how many how many decisions an open source
maintainer has to make in the day. How
many, like, reviews they have to do and
all that, but just the pure idea of
how many decisions. All of that is overwhelming.
So if you're gonna come in with a
random auto generated PR and
ask them to make another decision
rather than talking to them first. It is
it is the epitome of Which is the
biggest problem with open source. Whether
it's automated or not is that people feel,
I use your project as open source. I
can come along with a 500,000,000
line PR with this feature that no one
has ever even talked about.
And you're just expecting, oh, you're gonna accept
this because I've done all this work. And
there's no like, there's maintenance that comes on
the back of that. People have to then
Also Ugh. It's so frustrating.
Yeah. Also, what development team ever would let
you do that
in general? No, There
are others that do this, but the good
ones- If at a tiny startup and you're
a piece of shit 10x engineer,
the lone wolf
that all of your coworkers fucking hate you,
but you've been there since the dawn of
time.
You're You know that ex KCD comic with
the one tiny
You're
that guy at this 15 person You're
brilliant. So, even though you're awful and toxic
and shitty,
they feel like they can't get rid of
you. They'll they'll tolerate that guy opening a
15,000 line
drive by PR. Yeah. That refactors the whole
goddamn thing without talking to anybody.
I don't know. I just I always look
at some of these and I go like,
where
did you learn to do development
in a team?
Like I think and a team is the
important thing here. Right? And I just because
I look at my Rawkode Academy
Mono Repo, and I am a dick.
David, I mean like that's- Over the Christmas
break, I rewrote every microservice with a slightly
different tool, but that's because I was having
fun at my project. There's no contributions, external
contributions. Yeah.
Your own stuff, it's fine. Yeah. Like, your
own stuff. I'm just making sure I didn't
qualify for the fish part of the stuff.
We can continue that. Like, I I literally
on some of my commit messages, it's just
more more. Because I don't know what else.
Right? Like, I'm just I'm just screwing it
right now then. You you put words. I
just type, like,
There
you know, because that's installed globally, so it
asks me everywhere, even including in my, like,
personal repos.
You're much kinder to your future self than
I Not
as much as you would think. You should
see some of the comments I'm looking here
is do as we see. Sometimes we think.
Right. Okay. There we go. Yeah. There's the
lesson. That's perfect. There we go. Alright. So
let's get us back on the track for
just a moment. We were we had a
track. We pretend sometimes.
But Kat has said we'd love more people
to come and help out with sick release.
So let's assume that we want people to
listen to this, enjoy it, find it funny,
and then but hopefully, help the project.
You're both active members of six to the
best of my knowledge.
I was previously one, but what I'm gonna
do is say right now. Why do you
both do it? What is the reward, the
gooey feeling?
What if you could say to someone, do
this because. Right? It's not gonna be fame.
It's definitely not money. It's not glory.
Why do you do this? Alright.
Kat, you or me first.
No, go ahead. Do you want me to
go first? Okay. Yes. I will admit that
right now, just due to chaos in my
life, I haven't been very active.
I do it because I like helping people.
That's just it's a thing. I like teaching
people. I like helping people.
I don't like sitting on my hands and
watching someone else do something for me.
I want to do it myself, and I
want to help somebody get somewhere. So I
do it for the I helped somebody else
out today. I answered somebody's question.
I built something that someone else is gonna
get to use.
I do it for that.
And
granted, I I probably have a little bit
of a I guess, a hate for myself
considering how many projects I do this with,
for everybody who knows. A vacation.
What?
Please take a vacation. Eventually. I I help
run
don't remember how many conferences I help run
now.
And meetups and and lots of other things
along with open source. And and now I'm
also starting a a job with a more
open source. So it's kind of like, it's
just who I am. Long story short, that's
why I do busy.
What? Oh, I'm podcasting. Sorry.
It's up to I I don't know anymore.
Like, it's just where can I be of
his help? Where can I be of service?
And that that's where I end up.
And, unfortunately, I last time you were bored.
Me? Bored? Yeah.
I don't know what that word means.
I think you need to experience boredom.
Well, but then I have a book. I
have a crocheting project. Like, I will unplug.
That's different.
I still am helping.
Does that count? Okay. Okay. Anyway, Kat, you
probably have a I don't know if you
have a less altruistic version of this because
I think some people are thinking I'm insane.
But you know. You know what? I got
involved by accident
a long time ago,
before I was actually involved in the Kubernetes
project.
We
announced a deprecation
for
an aspect of the project that had been
there since the dawn of time. We announced
the deprecation of the Docker shim, which was
a little software shim that allowed you to
use the entire Docker stack
as your container runtime.
If you're relatively new to Kubernetes and that
sounds ridiculous to you, good. It should sound
ridiculous. That should never have been a thing.
But we announced the deprecation for this and
it was really poorly received. People were freaking
out. Twitter was big at the time
and people were freaking out online and it
was six in the morning. And I was
like,
people are wrong online. Oh no. Because people
were not freaking out about the right thing.
They were misunderstanding
what the Docker shim is. They were misunderstanding
what Docker is in relation to a container
runtime. And they were misunderstanding how this would
actually impact both cluster administrators and like regular
developers that may work inside of containers, but
don't actually touch Kubernetes.
A lot of people thought we were deprecating
Docker as if an open source project has
the power to shut down a private business.
Initially,
I got involved because people were wrong on
the internet, and I didn't like seeing people
being wrong. TV comic right there. It is.
So, like, people were wrong online, and I
was like, I'm not standing for this at
six in the morning before I've had any
coffee. So I thumbed out a tweet, like
10 tweets long, and it went wildly viral,
for tech Twitter at least.
And I got dragged into
SIG Contributor Experience, a SIG that I no
longer touch,
really, to write some blog articles explaining
what was actually going on, the actual implications
of removing the Dockershim and why people were
misunderstanding and freaking out online.
From there,
SIG Release liked the way I handled that
from a communications perspective and asked me to
come shadow on the comms subteam
for
version 1.22.
And then I just never left because it
turns out that being on the release team
is a constant barrage
of somebody is wrong on the internet or
I see this glaring problem that everybody else
is just stepping around. I know how to
fix that. I will go fix that. So
there's just it is an onslaught. It is
nonstop,
both trying to solve technical issues and interpersonal
issues. And it just does not get boring
at all, ever. So I just never left.
I just kept doing that until they gave
me a fancy maintainer title.
And then I went and did the same
thing in Sigdocs,
which is why I'm a tech lead over
there. And now we're working on unfucking the
way we generate our reference API docs
for the same reason. It is a problem
and nobody else has bothered to fix it
for years. So
I'm going to fix it.
You say that Yeah. I like solving problems.
Would you say that this itches the like
an ADHD itch?
Because there's always something going on and you,
like There's always something on. Switch a ton.
Yeah. There's there's absolutely always something going on.
But I'm ignoring
nine Slack messages right now, all from the
Kubernetes Slack. Ping.
Don't don't get distracted.
Don't get distracted.
Who are asking me for something, all of
them will get it. But, yeah, it's just
if you like chaos
and you thrive in chaotic environments,
Sig Release may be for you. There we
go. There's there's the ad. There's the the
plug at here at the end. We've never
published a show as a prelude to an
episode, but that right there is going out.
That's it. That's it right there. Go for
it. Yeah. It's it's not always chaotic. We're
trying to make it less chaotic. We're actively
making changes to to be less chaotic,
but it is very
you're you're all over the place at all
times by its nature. Another important thing for
newcomers in SIG release is if you are
on the release team, you need to be
real comfortable
not being afraid of people that you might
consider to be Kubernetes celebrities.
There you go. So just because somebody was
one of the original three committers to Kubernetes
and they've been at Google for twenty five
years,
you still got to tell that guy no.
Y'all just him no. Tell they're wrong. Right?
Yeah. Tell him he's wrong. Tell him And
if he pushes back, then you can come
crying to your release leader. You can come
crying to me and we'll take care of
it. But you do got to not be
afraid of people like that. Awesome. Great answers.
Thank you both. And two
very different answers. Both great answers.
Laura wants to make the world a better
place. Of them psychologically healthy. Lots of people.
And Kat's doing it more with a sword
and go Well,
I mean, I think that actually sums the
both of us up fairly well.
Yeah. Actually. It does. It does. It does.
Yeah. That's why we work well together. Yeah.
Exactly. No. You're both doing great work. That's
And
I love that it started just from people
don't understand the talker sham deprecation.
So Yeah. Just mad as hell
tweeting at six in the morning. With no
coffee. That's the line that I'm not sure
I believe, Kat, is the is the you
were tweeting. Yeah. With no All of my
worst tweets have happened first thing in the
morning.
Okay. That's while I'm waiting for my coffee
to brew. Yeah. All of the worst ones.
Okay. That's fair. Alright. I could believe that
one.
I think it's more the 10 tweet thread
is the one I'm not so sure about.
But okay. Oh, yeah. No. I was banging
that out while I was waiting for my
French press. There you go. There you go.
Yeah. Yeah.
Alright. I have one more question. Okay.
And then we'll see what happens after that.
But Kubernetes,
what was the the last release? January,
'1 '30 '3?
'30 '3. Obviously,
Kubernetes has been a thing though for the
best part of anything. Can't ten years? Yeah,
ten years. Almost eleven. Is there ever going
be a two point zero or is backwards
It's
something the release team tries to enforce
or encourage.
It's like, I wish you didn't ask that
question. I could see it. So here's the
thing.
That's not my call.
Yeah. It's, it is not my call
and it never will be. Like, I don't
get to say
when
we finally bump the major version. I mean,
there is a list. Don't know if there
ever will be. Sorry. We don't enforce
things like backwards compatibility.
Like we,
we don't enforce anything
really with respect to the technical implementation
of an enhancement.
It is absolutely not within our purview. Who
does have control over that technically
is SIG architecture?
The enhancements
subproject
would have a say there, I think.
But I don't know. I think it's more
fun to just stay as a one point
zero forever. There's just a list of things
I would love to see
that were
They worked okay at the time and we
need to change this, we can't because we're
so far. My favorite example.
Who knows what the default DNS policy is
in the Kubernetes cluster? Right? I do not.
It's cluster first. However,
there is a DNS policy called
default.
And I'm like, can we please help fix
this? And the default one made sense at
the time. It means use the default DNS
resolution of the host. Like, fine. Sure. It
should be host first or whatever. But this
thing things like test. You should just draw
a line and say, we have a golden
opportunity. We found your bar. I've actually joined
a release team. Here's the thing. Going over.
Maybe got your bar. Baby,
it's an open source project. PR is welcome.
Open that PR.
Like, you want to see the change? Open
the PR. Right. But that's someone would say,
let's just deprecate the default policy, create a
new one with a name, and then make
it 135.
And that's a that's an okay solution too.
Yeah. And then you're do it. Open a
cap, file an issue, and then fight with
friends and get them caught But I'm gonna
have that ready for KubeCon and drum up
a rally and protest to get this thing
changed. But yeah. Okay. And and Do you
have any other questions, Laura, that you would
like to throw towards Kat? No.
I'm just enjoying having the two of you
on the same call with me right now.
That's all. Yeah. Alright. I'm gonna be selfish
and ask a cool an not tech related
at all just because I would love to
know your answers.
Okay? And because I I need a new
book. I need a new movie, and I
need a new album to listen to. So
catch recommendations.
That's super hits. I don't know what we'll
call it, but get me a a book,
a movie, and an album, please. Book.
I would say have you read Jeff Vandermeer's
Southern Reach?
Do you like hard sci Excellent.
You should read, Jeff Vandermeer's Southern Reach. It
was originally a trilogy. However, he just released
a fourth book a little while ago. I
just finished it. It's exceptional.
Yeah. Go read Jeff Vandermeer's Southern Reach. Movie.
I have seen Nosferatu
twice. I'm gonna say go see Nosferatu.
If you don't wanna go see Nosferatu
because you don't like horror movies and you
can't take your children to see a scary
black and white arthouse
horror flick,
I think that
Kiss Bang is criminally underrated.
It's
not a horror movie. It's a thriller
kind of drama
starring Robert Downey Jr. Before he played Iron
Man. It's very good. It's funny. You should
go watch that album. I don't know. Do
you like industrial?
Okay. Are you familiar with the band Health?
You are now. Go listen to Health.
Any of their records, but their most recent
one is great. They're very And are they
like industrial EDME?
Are they industrial metal? What genre of industrial
do they fit in? Metal. Industrial do they
fit in? Metal.
Okay. More like industrial metal.
They do a lot of collabs with like,
they've done collabs with Bad Omens and Poppy
as So
if you like either of them, you will
also like Health, but Health is significantly more
industrial and Bad Omens is significantly more metal.
I don't know. I've seen him like four
times. Cool. That'll keep me busy for the
next few weeks with my travel. So again,
selfish question, but I'm glad I asked now.
Nice. Alright. Thank you so much for your
time today, Kat. Thank you.
Woo hoo. Thanks for joining us. If you
wanna keep up with us, consider subscribing to
the podcast on your favorite podcasting app or
even go to cloudnativecompass.fm.
And if you want us to talk with
someone specific or cover a specific topic, reach
out to us on any social media platform.
Until next time when exploring the cloud native
landscape
on 3.
On 3. 1,
2,
3.
Don't forget your compass. Forget your compass.